# TwitchLiveBot

## About the bot

TwitchLiveBot currently has four useful commands:

* **?list**: This will return a list of the streamers that the bot monitors.
* **?live**: This will return a list of the current live streamers.
* **?add \<name\>**: For example, sending `?add sodapoppin` in the Discord server channel will add the streamer *sodapoppin* to the list (and will modify the [streamers.json](streamers.json) file to include the streamer).
* **?rm \<name\>**: For example, `?rm sodapoppin` will remove the streamer *sodapoppin* from the list and the [streamers.json](streamers.json) file.

Additionally, the bot will send a message to the Discord server channel when a streamer in the list goes live and when the streamer goes offline.

## Setting up the bot

### Installing Python

This codebase uses Python 3.7.6. Python can be installed [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

#### Python packages used

Pip is used to install Python packages easily. After setting up Python, to install the packages below, in the command line you'd type `pip install <package-name>`. For example, `pip install discord.py` or `pip install twitchAPI`.

* discord.py 1.4.1
* twitchAPI 2.2.2
* python-dotenv 0.13.0

### Running the bot

For users wanting to set this up on their own computers, download and extract the repository zip file.

1. You'd need to register a [Twitch Developer application](https://dev.twitch.tv/console/) and a [Discord application with a Bot](https://discord.com/developers/applications). Don't forget to invite your Discord bot to your server.
2. Create an *.env* file - this is where you'll store your client IDs and tokens.

The .env file would have the following format, replace the XXX's with the IDs and tokens generated by the Twitch and Discord applications:

```.env
TWITCH_CLIENT_ID=XXX
TWITCH_SECRET=XXX
DISCORD_TOKEN=XXX
```

3. Replace the CHANNEL variable in [client.py](client.py) (specifically, this line `CHANNEL = 1234567`) with the Channel ID of your Discord server channel.
4. In your command line, run the python script [client.py](client.py). "TwitchLiveBot has connected to Discord!" should be printed in the command line and the bot should be online.
